VeChain Foundation Climate Research with Justin Goldston and Alison Filler of Climate Collective
Video Link - https://youtu.be/sYGk1KpS9cQ

Hey, everyone, my name is Alison. Thanks, Justin. I'm with climate Collective, we are an innovation network that is supporting entrepreneurs, scientists, nonprofits, investors, to build out and apply new digital technologies to unlock climate action at scale. So glad to be with you today.

00:38
Yes, thank you for that. So, so I've been I've been speaking with a number of people on this on this topic. I've been having some various opinions on on tracking on tracking carbon emissions, carbon emissions and carbon credits on the blockchain, you know, what's your, what's your thoughts on that? And, you know, what do you think the future holds on that topic?

01:04
Yeah, well, I think we have a lot of opportunities. Right now, we don't have too many proven use cases yet. But we have a lot of opportunity to explore. And some of the benefits that we're looking forward to with tracking carbon on chain are primarily in terms of transparency and auditability. So to understand why this is useful at all, we have to go back to what are the problems that we're trying to solve, and tracking carbon off chain or just anywhere in the real world, we can look at carbon markets, those have been where most of the activity around measuring and tracking carbon over time have occurred. So over the last 20 years with the voluntary carbon market, a lot of the procedures for measuring reporting and verifying carbon sequestration has been largely analog. So it's been literally paper and pencil or just an Excel spreadsheet. And sometimes it's it's uploaded into a PDF. But that's not even machine readable. So there are a lot of opportunities to automate those processes and increase the efficiency, and also the transparency of how this is done. And, of course, science evolves over time different methodologies for measuring how carbon is being sequestered or removed. So it makes sense that we'll have to update the science over time and then update how we measure as well. So I think that's something that tracking on chain can help us with in terms of transparency over time, how the science has changed, to help us have a bit more honest intellectual honesty, about how we're conducting this work. And with auditability, being able to look back in time on an immutable ledger. So tracking something on blockchain allows you it's tamper proof, right? You can't change it once it's stored. So you can have a lot higher confidence in the data itself. And building endpoints of automation, with with smart contracts or with just automated calculation even can help remove some of those risks for human error in the process. So at a broad view, I think those are a lot of the opportunities to say nothing of the financial opportunity of what decentralized finance might allow for us as well.

03:16
Yeah, you mentioned a few things there, I want to go I want to circle back on that decentralized finance aspect later. But ever, you said that a number of that a lot of this content, a lot of this information is is you know, tracked on on pen on pen and paper or pencil and paper, right, depending on where it is. Do you first see do you foresee with the advancements in AI, the use for see aI have an impact on this on Tron? Have an AI read read some of that some of that older information and kind of transfer that information on chain? And if so, like, how do you envision that? I just now thought of that. So, man I've been beefing?

03:59
It's an interesting question. I I'm, I am not super well versed in AI. So I'm, I'm I wonder if different AI or machine learning models could help us to sift through that legacy data that is collected, I wonder if it could help us come up with different trends or just help us to process that that wealth of data that does exist if it was in a machine readable format, first of all, so if it was all digital, perhaps different AI tools could help with that. But that's part of the problem, too. A lot of this data is stored in very different formats. It's not. It's it's not all readable in in a unified way. So I think that's probably part of step one. That's as much as I can say at this point, though.

04:50
Yeah. Yeah. So So given that given that it's in different formats. Do you have any kind of insight on how you You can how we can kind of standardize can standardize information where we can have not really like, well, I can't say a centralized platform because we're not trying to move into centralization, but have like a common language or or a type of a standard for for all of this all of this tracking. Does that make sense?

05:22
Yeah, I think you could compile data, potentially in a central repository, but collected through decentralized methods. So I think you could create something like a single source of truth, where data is pulled from many different servers, many different file types, and converted into a more open source database. So if you were to have kind of like a central library of climate data that's publicly accessible, it's a digital public good that everyone could tap into. And access for high quality climate data, could that then help standardize kind of how, how climate work is conducted if we were all operating off of the same song sheet?

06:11
Okay, so So I know you mentioned, I know, you mentioned decentralized finance. And I want to kind of kind of go into that space a little bit, delve into that a little bit, you know, how do you think So in your opinion, because I've received different different statements on there? So are you saying that, that, you know, this sustainability movement, this this carbon carbon tracking movement, is going to be in a default space? Or do you think is going to create like a new, a new, a new bucket, for lack of a bad term of this refi that that, that people are referring to it as

06:55
I think, I think there will be a number of different applications, I think, where decentralized finance tools come in, are, they can help us tap into new areas of liquidity. So again, if you're talking about tracking carbon, for the purposes of incentivizing different behaviors, let's say you're you're using credit, carbon credits as a medium, or as some kind of token of exchange, to incentivize a certain behavior. And you want to reward or punish certain behaviors, you know, we could also think about a carbon tax. But let's stick with maybe the credit analogy here. If you are, you know, there are a couple of reasons why you might invest in a carbon credit, you could purchase it, invest in it, for the purposes of retiring it, and claiming the environmental benefit, right. And maybe I'm, maybe I'm a large corporation, or I'm a, an industry partner, and I have a carbon balance that I need to account for or want to account for. And I'm going to claim that environmental benefit by investing in carbon credits. Or you could use it as a financial instrument, you know, you could, you could see it as a digital environmental asset, a new asset class, that if I hold, I think this is going to be more valuable in the future, maybe I want to resell it. Now, there are various pros and cons to that approach. But one thing that it can help us with as a financial instrument is to channel more capital into carbon projects. So if we, if we look at the tools of defi, and different liquidity pools that exist on blockchain, that really could be a method. If we if we track credits on chain, it could help be a method of channeling new streams of finance, new streams of capital, into, you know, the important carbon sequestration projects that we need to be scaling up across the world. And that's how you transfer the capital into real world climate action.

08:58
Excellent. Okay. So, so based on so I understand that you all worked with a number of different different groups. And, you know, based on your experience, what, what, what current challenges the you all face? Or what challenges or kind of drawbacks, do you see with with enterprise adoption, you know, individual adoption, as well as enterprise adoption? That's like, probably four questions there. But,

09:30
yeah, for enterprise adoption, I think. And I think this applies to larger institutions as well and some corporate partners. I think there's, you know, this is still a very new space. So just a level of awareness. The, you know, thankfully climate is becoming more more of a focal point in global conversations, in industry, in government, in politics and just in civil affairs. as well. And I think that so a lot of folks are starting to think about, okay, how can I keep track of my carbon footprint? How can I start to measure this? And then how can I do something about it? There's a lot of focus on climate these days. And that's fantastic. But there's not always an understanding of well, how does blockchain come in? What Why does this matter? You know, what are the benefits? Why should I care? Essentially? So I think that the biggest challenge right now is just that basic level of of raising awareness. And and maybe you could call it a communication challenge of sharing, what are the key benefits of blockchain? How can it help provide solutions to the challenges that we face in coordinating mass climate effort across the globe? And then secondary to that, to that awareness and communication is, is building trust. So I think there have been a lot of branding issues, you could say, in the in the web three, you know, in the blockchain space, there's sometimes a, an impression that this is the Wild West, and it can come with a lot of scams, and you know, and that there are a lot of opportunities out there to lose your money or to have no impact and basically to get swindled. So I think this is a real credibility issue. Why would corporates, Why would, why would companies let alone individuals want to get involved in something if they don't have faith in it, if they if they think it's a scam. So I think that's another part of education that is incumbent upon this community to be communicating better, that actually, this enhances, you know, our transparency, and verifiability actually, this, this makes data a lot more accessible. It actually, you know, enables new governance methods. So you open up decision rights to more audiences that may not have had them in the past. So I think communicating how these tools really solve problems will help more audiences to understand what the benefit is, and why this this has such a revolutionary potential in the climate space.

12:15
I liked that. I liked it. And I liked how you I like how you brought up the whenever whenever we struggle with it with the linkages, you know, between between real world use cases and blockchain, you know, because I think that that's one of the current issues, in my opinion, that's one of the current issues that we have now away, as, you know, some of these projects are building solutions, but there's no linkage to a real world use case. Right? So you nail on the head, you hit the nail on the head with that, and then then with the critical credibility, yep, that's a that's a big problem, you know, and so, you did you did kind of touch on some of this, but in your opinion, how do we how do we get, you might be repeating yourself here, but how do we get you know, to you know, while adoption of, of, you know, refi, or, or, you know, building buildings, sustainability, building sustainable use cases, sustainability use cases, right? Only using Blockchain,

13:17
I would take kind of a two pronged approach, I would take kind of a large scale approach. So you target enterprise, you target institutions, you target groups, who have huge business operations. And if they if they implement a new technology, it really offers a step change in, in, in any given industry. And they can also serve as kind of an anchor customer to overcome those credibility issues. Right. So if I'm operating in transportation, and I say, and I see a major trucking company, utilizing blockchain to track its emissions for its supply chain, that changes the changes in the landscape that changes, you know, how it how that company gets to compete in the space, if they have enhanced data, if they have lower costs, if they have particular business advantages from the adoption of this technology, it may trigger others in certain industries to adopt that as well. So think about cloud storage, for example. Any new technology needs a first, a few first movers and early adopters to make something more mainstream and widely adopted. So going with enterprise and going with institutions gives you a lot more visibility and allows you to have a larger impact at a larger scale through through more efficient partnerships that you're investing in essentially. And then I would also take you know, so if you go large scale and you go enterprise and institutional, also be looking at community and individual use, because the applications and the benefits and this comes back to the individual problems that either businesses or institutions or individuals face, they're all going to be different. So if you're designing a solution, you need to design around what is the actual problem that it's solving. And for individuals and communities, I think regenerative finance or you know, Blockchain enabled tools have unique advantages that are different from what you might offer to a business or to an institution. So if businesses and institutions might care a lot about the data integrity, and what it enables in terms of tracking their supply chain, to an individual, what these tools might be able to open up is new revenue streams, new forms of earning income, if I am measuring on the ground, the the evolution of a Carbon Project, maybe I'm reforesting, mangroves, maybe I've been planting mangroves. There are ways that using Blockchain enabled technology to monitor the state of that natural asset, the state of that mangrove forest, could reward me with certain incentives after I upload data. And maybe I can earn revenue for for a project like that this is actually a pilot that a group called gain forest and solid foundation have had been testing out in the Philippines is exactly that. Or perhaps it enables me to access new, new asset classes that I never had before as an individual. Perhaps it allows me to overcome certain fees or unlock greater efficiency with trading resources, as far as it comes to preserving natural community resources. So it all comes down to what is the problem that you want to address? And, and how do you frame the solution, whether that's for a business, or an institution, or to an individual or to a community. And there are really a lot of wide ranging use cases that are being explored, explored in the refi space right now. And that's personally what I find so fascinating.

17:03
I like that. I like that. So it's very, is there anything else that that that you would want to add? In terms of in terms of this discussion, in terms of what more people should? Should? should do? And or do you have like a call to action, you know, in this place?

17:22
Hmm. I would say it's still very early days, right? So a lot of groups are, are still in what I would call like spaghetti on the wall stage, just like throwing and seeing what sticks. There's a lot of innovation happening. It's an incredibly dynamic space. So I would say stay tuned, because there's a lot that's being experimented with and coming out. And we need to do more, right? This is where innovation takes place. And I find that really exciting. But we're also looking for new real world use cases. Because by proving out how something impacts climate work tangibly on the ground, that's where we're going to build the most confidence, I think in in these applications. And that's where we can really help to build trust and help to promote adoption, is by demonstrating to someone how this offers a tangible benefit, either to their business or to their individual life.

18:16
Excellent. So Alison, thank you. Thank you for your time. Where can people where can people find you?

18:24
You can find the climate collective, online at climate collective.org. We're also on LinkedIn and on Twitter.

18:32
All right. Thank you. Once again, thank you for your time and for everyone else. Until next time. Thanks
