VeChain Foundation Climate Research with Justin Goldston and Linda Dunn of Georgetown University

Video Link - https://youtu.be/r7Fa19FVdPk

00:20
Sure. Thank you, Justin. Thanks for having me here today. So, as Justin said, I'm Linda done. And I'm the faculty director for the supply chain management master's program at Georgetown University and School of Continuing Studies.

00:37
Thanks for Thanks for that. So. So at Georgetown, do you all do any they will do anything in the area of, of sustainability? And, you know, carbon emissions and carbon tracking? or what have you? What have you seen in that in that particular area?

00:55
Yeah, there's, first of all, just supply chain, there's tremendous interest in this area. Right. And I would say that the program at Georgetown, and you know, this, from some background, right, is very focused on corporate social responsibility. So both from an environmental impacts, and also social impacts, you know, how, how does the supply chain play a role? And how can we improve both the environment and the social impacts using supply chain thinking about supply chain. So really, that that is a major focus. And I'd say the university overall has done a lot of things and published it, you know, with green energy, just to focus on sustainability overall. And that's really a part of, you know, taking care of others in the world, sort of the Jesuit values that they have.

01:54
Excellent. So, so I'm no arch. So for full disclosure, I teach within the program at George at Georgetown as well. So, so here's, that's, that's one of the reasons why, you know, some of the questions will come up. That's gonna come up later on. But I know that you you have you have some some background in in blockchain. And I know that we talk about how to integrate blockchain within the industry, namely within the supply chain space. So how do you how do you see us leveraging this technology to make an impact from a carbon tracking perspective?

02:39
Sure, Justin, I think you know, anything that really needs to be proven, so to speak, is going to be a place where blockchain may play a role. And so right now, there's a lot of claims in sustainability. I'll even diverge just from carbon for a minute. But you know, just sustainability practices. We talk about greenwashing, what's real, what's not? As many companies are so focused on, you know, zero carbon or pledges and, you know, what can they do? And how do they measure, you know, really scope three, which is the hard part, which is the one more supply chain is involved, right? They're going to need to prove it. And they're going to need to do it in a way that they don't have to keep doing the same auditing, so to speak. That's the biggest issue right now is both the measurement, but then also the certification. And that's where I think blockchain will play a role with the certification. You know, it is hard to measure. There's a lot, you know, people don't have necessarily all the same definitions, when they even talk zero carbon. What about embedded carbon, you know, in the construction industry, and once it's already there. And so, once the measurement and the definitions start to form, at least, you know, stage one of it because I think it will continually be refined, someone has to be able to certify that. So there's a lot of groups out there now, similar to when Sarbanes Oxley came out. And you really with GAP had to prove beyond a reasonable doubt, right? Someone had to sign off on it, that the financials were correct, indeed. And so with all that, that proving that which is where I think we are with carbon right now, then there's the audit statement, right. And for the most part, they're just doing an overall company. Here's the audit for the company. I think when you start to get with carbon, it's going to be by product. And to do that you don't want to do it again. And again, and again, you want to say I know the carbon footprint. And it might be that we actually have two pieces. This is the piece, you know, basically, before freight. Right, here's the piece, you know, this is what it is. And then there's a second piece that's associated with freight that might change for where the product is going. But the actual development and manufacture of the product and all the tier two, tier three suppliers, the measurement of that is all put on a blockchain, it's certified, you can prove that with customer, A, B, and C, because, again, you have 1000s of customers who want the same information. You can't you can't do each one separately, right. And so I think, because it's going to be at a product basis, instead of just a company, you're going to need a way to have that audit, have it certified and be able to each time present it. And I say you may separate freight, because obviously products can be moved all around the world. So there's to me there, it's almost like when you have a price in supply chain, right? And it's without the freight, you know, and then you add on the freight. So I think you might have the same thing. Here's the carbon measurement, here's the blockchain that proves it. And then there might be another one that gets generated with the freight. Just an ideas.

06:32
I love it. I love it. And so I know that we're big, we're big on this, you know, we hope that this is the utopian view, you know, of this space. But so given the given the kind of the, the, the rails of this of this study, you know, in terms of desirability, and feasibility given that you spend a lot of time in this space, given a lot of time at Aspen, I put time into space, what do you think the desirability is for a solution like this for those in the industry? Yeah, that's I know, that's a broad statement. But you know, think of the trucking companies think of those that do that do accidentally think of those that are there that they're they're just permanently focused on money? Right, you know, what's what, in your opinion, was the desirability or something like this?

07:26
I think the desirability is going to differ by industry a little bit, and it's going to differ by, you know, what's your role in the supply chain? So I think manufacturers first and foremost are going to be the most interested, just based on size, based on margin that they make. And, you know, those that have the ability, again, that don't want to replicate? Yes, this product has this carbon footprint, right? And this has has this level, I think you're gonna see it first in the manufacturing base, because it's natural there. After that, when you start to get to trucking companies, etc, that adoption would be afterwards, from my opinion, only because the margins for those types of companies tend to be thinner, right? It's like technology, where does that get any technology gets adopted, usually in industries that are have larger players and have better margins, that's, that's, you know, because they have the ability to put that in without hurting their p&l. And as a matter of fact, as it becomes required, I think the manufacturers will again, see blockchain as a way to implement something without having the repetitive cost, okay, it's gonna cost me I have to get audited, but it's one time. So that will be the savings from their perspective. The industries like trucking, and again, maritime will come along over time. And again, maritime may be faster. But even, you know, they've made a lot of money of recent, but there's been times in the past where they haven't made as much money either. So transportation itself is just got smaller margins. It's got more independent players, smaller players. And so again, I think it'll start with the manufacturing. And then eventually as costs come down, it gets normalized, the data is being exchanged, then it can move to the transportation sector, not that there won't be any transportation companies focused on blockchain and their carbon footprint there will be I just we have to recognize there's lots of independence there's lots of different players, and the margins are different than some of the you know, well, brand name known companies. So

10:01
Okay, excellent. So, so based on so based on, based on what we discussed, what do you think the feasibility would be? And if you do think it's feasible? How long do you think that it would take for Godot, there's gonna be a phased approach where it might be the larger organizations, you know, adopting it, then you have the small and medium organizations. You know, how long do you think it would take? If you think it's feasible?

10:35
Very good question. I don't have the crystal ball, you know, I would assume that you're looking, you know, five years out for manufacturers. Part of the issue, when you look at just the carbon measurement is the lack of agreement on how to measure. So that is going to take another year to two years, just to get people on the same page, you know, what does an audit look like? And maybe one to two years is, is actually optimistic. No one likes, you know, the standard better than their own standard, right. So the idea of countries coming together, and of their being uniformity, you know, how long will that take, what I'm hoping is, we at least come to some basic principles that would allow for measurement, with an understanding that it would be refined, like anything else, and it may have certain amount of allocations to it that isn't necessarily ideal. But you know, if you're making, you know, if you have any product, the core ingredient could be good going into multiple things. So, you know, I think before you were talking briefly about a cow, we are talking about a cow, but, you know, different pieces of that cow are used different ways, right? Sometimes for me, sometimes for the hide, it could be, you know, different uses, and so all products and that, too. So what's it being used for, right? And so there has to be some amount, it's like, overhead cost, you're going to have some amount of allocations that have to happen as part of this. If there can be agreement on how those get done, what's reasonable methodologies, then you're going to talk about the blockchain really being able to come in and be that verification piece. So I'm thinking, three to five years. And that may seem long, but it takes a long time for adoption. And again, it's going to be the big companies, and then the smaller ones over time. Right. And, you know, I think with anything that costs, you know, this will, the big issue will also be how much does this cost? Right? So as costs go down, then it becomes more and more feasible, and the timeline may move up. But that is always it has to have an ROI. People aren't going to do something unless there is a return on the money. They're investing in it. Yep,

13:16
I think, yeah, I think that's the big I think that's the big hang up, in terms of in terms of, you know, just primarily talking about the blockchain, you know, the blockchain technology, you know, you know, artificial intelligence, that's gonna say, organizations a lot of money, but how much is is a blockchain, you know, solution gonna save an organization? You know, I think that some people see it as a detriment, because now I have to show everything. Right. But, you know, we talk a lot about we talk a lot about, you know, the zero knowledge proof. We talked about that at the at the at the event that that, you know, we did at Georgetown, where, you know, we can we can confirm that you're saying that you're saying what you're saying is indeed true, without showing everything, you know, and I think that if Supply Chain Leaders are educated on that, first, I think that we'll have I think we'll have more more acceptance, I won't say embrace. That's the little that's a little that's a little quick. I think that you know, they'll they'll have more acceptance to actually listen to it more. But, you know, I know that I know that we talked about about blockchain and its sustainability class, you know, in terms of I think we have a case study in terms of V chain, this study is actually for V chain. But the you do you have other classes where you talk about, you know, artificial light technologies, such as artificial intelligence and blockchain within a program.

14:40
Oh, absolutely. Sourcing class, right. Strategic Sourcing and contracting. That's been a big topic, both on you know, how will it I think, from a student perspective, it's how will these technologies change my job? How will they change what I need to know? So actually, the last Last time we had, we're talking about both of the technologies, actually. So, you know, and I think you make a good point. And with AI, it's relatively cheap, in many ways, right? Although, we're still. So I think companies are gonna see some savings, anything from reducing the workload on code to, you know, being able to replicate things, we're, we're just at the forefront of what will happen with AI, and they're ready using it for scouting as suppliers, you know, lots of different ways that you can use that to very easily bring back a large amount of information, sort through it. But it's still at this point requires, you know, intervention by humans at some point. When you look at the blockchain, I think that contracts of sizeable amount are important. But I think what you were talking about, you kind of hit the nail on the head with the zero knowledge proof, right? The issue is supply chain, and we talked about this. Everyone wants to know, the tier two, tier three, but your your manufacturers don't necessarily want you to know that or if you're a distributor, let me use it that way. Because maybe you can go around supply chains weren't necessarily built to be fully transparent. Go from the risk of costs getting out there to what are the actual ingredients I'm using, something's proprietary I, you know, I've developed a formula, I don't want anyone to know that formula. And I don't want them to know my suppliers. So we have both, when you're looking at corporate social responsibility, whether it's carbon, whether it's making sure there's not forced labor, no matter what it is, the difficulty lies in the fact that supply chains don't necessarily want you to know all their suppliers. So if you can do something where some pieces hidden, meaning the name of the supplier amounts, maybe not as much price, certainly, right. But if you can hide those things, but have the other pieces verified, without it being Oh, well, I can still figure it out without the name, right. I mean, there's there needs to be a way. And so I think that that can be done. And that would help sort of grease the wheels, if, you know, if it didn't have full transparency. And it may be you know, using permission blockchains at some point to where you get permission to see certain things, right. So it's that that combo, that might happen, I see that in the medical area as being something you know, there's lots of different use cases, we're talking supply chain and carbon right now. But there's obviously lots of different use cases. And even for the, for the carbon and tracking it, maybe it is permissioned, maybe it's not just open and maybe you only get to see it for you know, certain products, you know, same thing, you have to de risk it for the people who are putting the information out there. And to help de risk it, it may mean that some things have to be anonymous. So I know that goes against the transparency piece, but really you're being transparent about a lot part that matters more than the part that doesn't although people who want to use it to see that the tier two or tier three suppliers are financially sound, they do want to know the names, but maybe for carbon, it doesn't matter. All right, so that's where you might have given different pieces of information that can be attributed to the same company

19:04
Yeah, I think he brought he brought up about four good points there. So yeah, cuz like whenever you saw m&s, and that's the whole thing about about you know, different blockchain protocols and that they're going to have their own their benefits you know, their benefits and things like that. So you know, what with V chain you know, V chain was focused on the supply chain industry, right? And you know, and they're doing a lot within the within the carbon tracking space. Now, you do mention you did mention the whole the whole permission blockchain, you know, permission blockchain thing, which is going to be a topic of discussion once we actually get leaders in this space. But then there's another there's another protocol that that has a number of use cases called Casper, so the CASPER protocol. So they're actually you know, they're saying that you know, one of the main industries they're going they're trying to address is a supply chain industry, but they they're called they're, they're referred to as a hybrid blockchain, where you can pick in choose what information you want to be, you know, transparent, and then what information you don't want. But like I said, you know, zero knowledge Proofs will actually give you that, you know, based on certain use cases, but natively Casper is saying that, you know, we're a hybrid blockchain. So, you know, as people as, as organizations, you know, come on to these protocols, then we'll actually kind of hash out these these particular these particular things. So, you know, again, that's going to be on down the line. So, alright, last question. Probably won't be, but I'll say last question. What, what challenges what challenges do you foresee us having in, you know, tracking, tracking, you know, carbon carbon emissions, carbon credits, carbon offsets on, you know, on the blockchain, in your opinion?

20:52
As I've mentioned, just first, the measurability right, and and methodologies. That's the biggest challenge in my mind. And then it's probably secondly is getting who's going to audit? And how are you validating the auditors, so they may need their own credentials that hat lie on the blockchain to to be able to say, yes, I've done X, Y, and Z and this methodology have this level of training away again, that someone can't rubber stamp, so there's going to be some, you know, it's gonna be a cottage industry in a way of just measurement. But then you have to know how how do you validate the people who are measuring this, that they're using the same methodology that they're trained? So I think that could be one of the uses for the blockchain on sustainability as well? And is that a challenge? More that you'll start like anything else with too many, and something has to shake it out? So there needs to be some kind of I don't want to say governing body but at least a group that is agreeing upon the standards, right? The standards that would be implemented for the measurement of the carbon, and who can you know, who's trained in it, who's certified in it? And then the challenge, I think, with it actually going on the blockchain is probably a little bit less other than as we talked about, you know, being able to possibly make some of it anonymous. I mean, I don't see the actual technology piece, once you have the measurement as being that much of a roadblock. I think it's just getting people on the same page for the measurement. And then getting that group, even if you have that, who can now do the certifications. They would maybe be the issuers or utilize the blockchain, you know, to issue that have the ability to do that. And basically say, yes, I've put this on the blockchain because they've LEED certified and this product has this much carbon.

23:08
Excellent. Thank you for that. So yeah, that's all that's all the questions. That's all the questions that I have. So Linda, thanks. Thanks once again. Where can people find you? Where can people learn more about more about your program?

23:23
Thanks, Justin. Yeah, well, I'm on LinkedIn. So feel free to reach out connect with me on LinkedIn. And then the program they can go to Georgetown's website, Georgetown School of Continuing Studies, and there's a little you know, you just click on there and you'll see all about us there and the program and curriculum and faculty. So hope people are you know, it's a great field. The technology that's coming and impacting this field is just amazing to

23:56
yeah, great field,

23:58
great program and you know, you know, you'll

24:01
have a lot of institutions that are you know, very based you know, research based but you know, Georgia Georgetown program is is practice base, you know, they have have a lot of lot of esteemed faculty, they have a strong have strong people on the advisory board, you know, one of my close peers, Sherry Hines is on the advisory board along with with other other, you know, people with, you know, amazing backgrounds, you know, in the public and private sector. So, check it out. So, once again, thank you and everyone else until next time,
