VeChain Foundation Climate Research - Justin Goldston Interviews Drew Bonneau of KlimaDAO
Video Link - https://youtu.be/9fXhRMkdPlc

Hi everyone, in this discussion we're going to be talking with Drew from Clement from clay McDowell. And we're going to see how we can how we can bring in clay McDowell from to kind of provide cross chain solutions. So Drew, you want to introduce yourself?

00:22
Sure, thanks. Thanks, Justin. So I'm Drew, leading partnerships at thema Tao have about eight years of experience in the climate finance space. I've worked with carbon project development financing. I've also worked with some tech companies doing different innovative things with monitoring, reporting and verification, using different remote sensing technologies. And I've also just been a carbon trader in the market on renewable energy certificates and things of that nature. So yeah, excited to speak our climate I was doing, we've been in the market for about a year and a half. Now, I suppose. One of the largest holders of carbon liquidity in the blockchain space is about 25 million tons of tokenized, or digitized carbon offsets that have made their way to the polygon blockchain. And Lehman is building a variety of different tooling and typically building at the infrastructure layer for different applications to tap into that carbon liquidity and build unique applications with digital hub. That's me.

01:23
Excellent. I appreciate that. So can you can you kind of expand on why you all chose polygon?

01:31
Certainly. So one of the key benefits, I think, of blockchain technology in the kind of partner spaces is in particular with public blockchains. Right. So of course, there's a variety of different public blockchains. But we chose polygon because there is a very, let's say, active developer community. It's an EVM compatible chain, which is a lost, there's a lot of EVM developers already. And it's really important to have, let's say, a very vibrant defined community, or decentralized finance, that can build different types of interoperable applications together, because I think that's how we really spur on innovation in this industry is when people can build together like that. So you want a chain where there's a lot going on there. The other piece is that polygon, in comparison to other l twos of polygon, proof of stake is technically like a side chain. They do have some true LT solutions in the pipeline. But the other condition with them is that they've had tremendous traction when it comes to corporate adoption. Right? A lot of that right now is just marketing efforts and doing some interesting things with NFE projects and such. But then it's not so much of a leap for these corporates to say, Okay, we're already using polygon for projects, XYZ. Let's also start to use them for some of our ESG initiatives, and tap into that chain and the infrastructure there for sourcing different types of environmental assets.

02:59
Excellent, excellent. So So given that we're trying to bring in bring in the masses, good, we're trying to bring in enterprises, right, what current work current challenges do you see within the climate within the climate, finance, space? And adoption?

03:20
Yeah. So this is a really, really important part for what we're trying to do. And that's the interfacing challenge, right? I think decentralized finance generally, really has this challenge with with the interface on we can't expect corporates and really just the majority of users to create let's say, a web three wallet, use meta mask, you know, sign into an application, do everything like that, you'd have to make the experience more, let's say went to like, where they're comfortable logging in with an email, maybe isn't two factor authentication, being able to see the different types of blockchain based assets they have, be able to send transactions easily and unverified manner. That's, that's really crucial. That's some of the one of the points that I was working on with our partners. But you know, I think it's kind of like where the internet was out in mind was before web browsers became more intuitive and everything. I think that in the next year or two people won't even realize it interacting with Watson. Right. It's just all going to be abstracted away. And that's really the direction we need to go to to get mass adoption.

04:25
Okay, okay. So, So, alright, so once we once we get to once we get to adoption, because I think that you've had the discussion of, you know, based on the use case, everything doesn't have to be on the blockchain. Right. But in terms of in terms of, you know, carbon offsets, you know, carbon you know, carbon emissions tracking, what do you think are the benefits of utilizing of utilizing blockchain

05:00
Yeah, so we, I think, like clean Dallas approach to this isn't unique necessarily. institutions like the World Bank have cited the benefit of blockchain. And I've seen it as a, let's say, inappropriate technology to apply to the climate finance space. But why is that? Blockchain really provides unprecedented transparency and traceability of different types of assets. And it can be done in a way where you have essentially a neutral infrastructure that's doing this that a variety of different stakeholders can both monitor but then also interact with. So I think this goes back then to this idea of having a vibrant defy developer community. If you're all building on what's a neutral public infrastructure in a trustless manner, which blockchain provides. People can build different types of applications together, and not have to rely on some centralized party to ensure that there's, you know, congruence with the data and things of that nature can all just run on the blockchain. So I think that's a really strong suit. The other piece is that right now, the voluntary carbon market is very fragmented, just trading activity that takes place OTC in a very opaque fashion. And when you can start to move that market activity onto a blockchain, there are interesting data insights that I think can be empowering to the market, which simply aren't really possible today. Today, if you're looking at, let's say, market analysis of the long term market, you're relying on retrospective, often survey based studies. So you're going to be looking at data that's Munsell. Right. In contrast, just a very concrete example on this. It's a claim that has the carbon taxi medallion at farmer's market dashboard. And in real time, we can see all the activity taking place from different types of digital earnings sets. So we'll be able to see, you know, what kind of projects are most interesting to corporates, which geographies seem to be having having high interest in the corporate sector looking to offset their carbon and so on, all that data will be available? And I think that's going to be

07:09
excellent. So So yeah, you were talking about you were talking about, you know, bringing bringing devs in to your to your ecosystem to your protocol. So my question to you is, how do you how do you recruit and retain Deb's when there's, frankly, when there's a lot of competition out there across within the web three space? I'm very interested in this one.

07:33
Yeah. Yeah, um, let's see, you know, Klieman is a decentralized autonomous organization or doubt. It's the first Dow that I've been part of, but it's really interesting to see how one with the the transparency of like governance decisions, how that happens. And then also through the token omics, that different contributors, of course, have skin in the game right away, because you have the clean the token, you can then engage in governance, for instance, do you have a voice to make your decisions on how funds are allocated, and the different types of projects that we undertake? That that's all very transparent. There's a clear governance process discussions from the community and then voting to determine that. So it's very meritocratic, I would say as well. And that's an interesting piece, I think is attractive to people. And it's out. The other side is just working in climate finance right now. I think if people are looking for something meaningful, where they can have a real impact on, it's the future of the planet and society in many ways, and then leverage this new novel technology, we're ready to cross or clean it out works with the interface of blockchain finance. So I think that's a that's strong messaging. It's something that resonates with a lot of people. And so we've been fortunate to be able to attract a lot of

08:55
excellent. I like that. So so how long? How long do you think it's going to take for to get this down type governance type structure for web to what we call web two companies, by traditional traditional organizations, you know, how long how long do you think is going to it's going to take to get the adoption of this type of model.

09:22
As you know, I can see him in 912 months, we'll have some more industry players that are a bit more involved, right. We've done a lot of education around what it is that we're actually doing. And this comes back to another point of like, why is the data structure interesting or why is it interesting was interesting, the blockchain. So we're building these different infrastructure pieces to facilitate the market and the way that we're doing there. And by building on blockchain, all these different market participants can have a voice in that but also have, let's say, ownership over that infrastructure. Right. And that's something that doesn't exist in the truth. issue of market today even, right, it's all, you know, siloed, exchanges centrally controlled, fragmented, in a way, kind of harmonizing all that, and then everybody can have a voice. And if you join up, of course, that's, that's the thesis that we're after. Will different actors actually want to do that, because there's a lot of competition in the market, we have to see, but the tools that we're building, we try to be neutral and just build an infrastructure layer that other people can build on top. So we'll have to see how much adoption was there. The other piece is on the regulation side. Mmm, hmm. Wyoming, for example, like does recognize Dows is a legal entity type. There's a few other jurisdictions in the world that are starting to do this, too. I think that's important for legitimacy, and for different players to feel comfortable about it. Okay,

10:51
so you said that you've been you've been educating people, you've been educating people on what you all do right. Now, are you saying that you've been educating traditional companies on what you do?

11:03
Primarily? Yeah, I mean, you know, there's so much stuff happening with the VA, right. And what we're doing, though, has this direct time to go into like the off chain world, or the real world, whatever it may be, you know, we have to onboard these players in the market that have been here for the last 20 years, you know, and to show them how this technology can be used, and how it can be empowering to what they're doing. So that is a pretty core mission is what we do. And that's why, most recently, we've been hosting this webinar series, called on set, we're trying to get a lot of industry players in there, you know, to showcase to them what it is that we're doing. I think the first webinar is titled Introduction to Digital carbon. I think that's a great resource for people in the market to take a look at what we're doing and what blockchain in the name.

11:51
Okay, now, what's been what's been the feedback? What's been the feedback from the from the industry? Like, what have they been saying? Because I'm curious.

12:00
So, I mean, you know, some, some organizations are pretty, let's say, pretty interested. And they see the potential here, they see how it can disintermediate the market to a certain extent, and help deliver more finance to the carbon project developers themselves, and through that local communities that are on the frontlines of climate impact. So that's exciting. I think that, you know, they see it as a direct route, to financing and to the demand side participants in the market. There's others that, I think see what we're doing as well competition for them. Now, I mentioned that the idea of disintermediation, whenever you do that in the market, people are going to push back because there's middlemen that are taking part of the profit, right. So, you know, those types of players are certainly far less receptive to what we're doing. Then you have other there's other groups that they associate anything with Blockchain with, like, you know, scams and hacks. And it's just Wild West, right? Yes. That's something we have to overcome.

13:05
Yeah. Excellent. And I know I know that. So are you do you do anything with the with two can protocols? I know that you were actually you were actually we're, we're working with that? They're kind of totally right, if I'm not mistaken.

13:19
Yeah. So Touken protocol developed like the this first carbon bridge, it's called. So that basically allows you to digitize the offsets that existed in the Para carbon registry. So Vera pause Virginia First, while they developed this framework that they feel comfortable with. But in that time, like all the major carbon registries have started working groups and figuring out how can we do this digitization? We're going to do it ourselves, are we going to use a third party? Those are all things that are getting figured out. And there's other carbon bridges that are emerging into mosser and C three, et cetera? There's a there's a few players. Excellent.

13:55
Excellent. So if so, if an organization is last question, if the organization is looking to enter into this space, you know, what would be the what would be the implementation path? What would be the digital transformation journey you take for a web two company moving into web three?

14:27
Yeah, so I'll answer that through the lens of like a carbon project developer, to provide context. So you know, right now, they may partner with different organizations that are going to buy their credits and then find end buyers to make it forward deals or just swap deals, etc. But what this project developer can do now is that they can directly link into the market and see what their types of credits are trading it, that the pricing is available 24/7 Fully transparently on the blockchain so they can have a choice. So let's do just selling their credits directly in the market and after they bring them on chain, or they could load them into a marketplace. And you know, sell them for fixed pricing the different participants that can integrate them into some of the other web retooling that does like automated offsetting different FinTech solutions and such. The big thing for them, this part of the journey is they need to connect the carbon registry account with the blockchain. And that's getting more streamlined nowadays. Again, a lot of this is going to get abstracted away, you're not going to have to worry about meta masks, you're just going to have one account, you know, with the current Registry, or with another custodian that will manage all that for that. And then it's just going to be like they had any other account online, you're just going to click a few buttons, move some credits around, they're not going to worry about any blockchain stuff at all won't be, you know, in the background. Yeah.

15:55
Yeah, I know. I know. I said that was the last question, but a lot. So. So hopefully, hopefully, this will be the last one. But so what was your thoughts in terms of in terms of interoperability within within Islamic finance space?

16:10
Yeah, so this is, this is an important one, to a gentleman from PSC. So they are grouped under the I was at the Global blockchain Business Business Council gbbc. So they they are looking at what kind of working groups they can have here. And one of them that I'm really pushing for is the development of an open digital carbon data standard. Now, what does that mean? It means that we have the data framework in place for how carbon offsets are stored on a blockchain. It also means that we start to standardize the processes at the smart contract level on, I don't know, if it's more like carbon retirements, that means when you actually claim the environmental benefit, and then that credits taken out of the market, so all these different processes need to be standardized. And this BFC group, their infrastructure, working groups, are looking at this and they're, you know, a neutral body. They're working in funded by multiple layer one block chains. And they're also working with the carbon registries themselves. So this is exciting, because of course, this type of standardization is really important in the market, if we have, you know, all the innovation happening across these different block chains and so on being able to compound let's

17:26
see, all right, and then what's the name of that group again?

17:29
So it's VFC and confined to things like blockchain, climate something and then BX CI is the blockchain on an Infrastructure Working Group. Those organizations are underneath the global blockchain Business Council.

17:46
Okay. Okay. Blockchain Business Council. Okay. Okay, all right. Perfect. Yeah. So So yeah, that's pretty much everything, everything that I had. So do you have kind of any, any any parting words? Where can where can people find you? And you know, what do you what what, what, what final takeaways or call to action? Would you have?

18:17
Sir, yeah. Would you say? Look, this is a really exciting space. I think blockchain technology is starting to mature, the interfaces are getting better. There's just so much innovation happening. And I think climate finance itself is also a growing field. It's tremendously growing good. 30x by 2030, that's carbon offsets in the voluntary carbon market. And so you know, if you are, let's say, a developer, or just someone working on in finance, and you're interested in what's going on here, check out clean it out that finance, we have a great resources section, we've written extensively on all the topics that I've talked about in this discussion. And you can also follow me on Twitter, it's at Drew underscore Lima, I post a lot about the different developments in this space as well as the carbon offsetting market more generally. And yet, be happy to engage in this discussion and also if your company happy to help you source and utilize digital carbon assets in the future.
